[MUSIC]
Well I had planned to use a fabulous
clip from the Big Bang Theory and
have Sheldon Cooper explain the rules to
Rock-paper-scissors-lizard-Spock, but
unfortunately the copyright police
told me that was a very bad idea.
So since my wife thinks that I'm already
a lot like Sheldon I'm going to take my
crack at explaining the rules to
Rock-paper-scissors-lizard-Spock a la
Sheldon Cooper.
Let's do this.
It's very simple.
Scissors cuts paper, paper covers rock.
Rock crushes lizard, lizard poisons Spock.
Spock smashes scissors,
scissors decapitates lizard.
Lizard eats paper, paper disproves Spock,
Spock vaporizes rock,
and as always has been,
rock crushes scissors.
Yeah.
Well I hope you enjoyed that.
Our mini-project for
the end of week one, and
the first one that you will turn in for a
grade is Rock-paper-scissors-lizard-Spock.
Now when we were brainstorming on kind
of what mini-projects we should use for
this class, our first inclination
was to do something on income taxes.
So I kind of bounced this idea off of my
focus group at home consisting of my three
kids.
And their reaction was Income taxes, yuck.
Who wants to do income taxes?
So we watch a lot of Big Bang Theory at
home, and so they came up with the idea,
hey yeah let's do something on
Rock-paper-scissors-lizard-Spock.
So that's where the idea came from.
In this video I'm going to
do you two things.
I'm going to start off by walking
you through the rules for
Rock-paper-scissors and then later
Rock-paper-scissors-lizard-Spock.
And I'll show you kind
of a clever idea for
how to determine who wins the game
of Rock-paper-scissors-lizard-Spock.
And in the second part of the video,
I'll walk you through the mini-project and
then in particular I'll show you how you
can get help if you're having trouble
actually completing the mini-project.
We've got kind of some nice support
structures in place in the class.
And I'll show you how to use those and
If you get stuck, you should come back and
look at this video, because I give you
some nice hints about how to proceed.
Okay, let's go on and get started.
All right, let's go through the rules
of Rock-paper-scissors-lizard-Spock
a little slower.
So this is just a variant
of Rock-paper-scissors.
We have rock, paper, and scissors.
So rock smashes scissors,
scissors cuts paper, paper covers rock.
The problem with playing rock paper
scissor is that you tie a lot.
And if you play friends where
they kind of know your patterns,
you may tie more than half the time.
So one way to avoid having lots
of ties is to add more items.
So this variant you add in lizard,
and you add in Spock.
And this little poem over here is
actually what Sheldon recites on
The Big Bang Theory to describe it.
My kids love it when I do this.
But I don't expect you to actually
program this rules in your first project.
I'm going to tell you a simpler way using,
surprise, surprise, modular arithmetic.
So over here I have
the Rock-paper-scissor-lizard-Spock wheel.
And in fact it's really the
Rock-Spock-paper-lizard-scissors wheel.
And the way to remember this is
you put Spock next to rock and
lizard next to scissors.
Now why is this wheel useful?
It's because I can
figure out who I win and
lose to based on where I sit on the wheel.
So, let's consider Spock.
Spock always beats his
counterclockwise opponents.
Spock vaporizes rock,
Spock smashes scissors.
But he always loses to
his clockwise opponents.
Paper disproves Spock.
Lizard poisons Spock.
In fact this holds for
every item on the wheel.
So if we want to go through and figure
out who wins at Rock-paper-scissors,
we can take the numbers for each of the
items, take a look at their difference.
So we could take paper minus Spock.
Okay, paper appears on the clockwise,
so two minus one is positive, it's one.
Therefore, paper beats Spock.
Okay, lizard, three minus one is two,
it's actually clockwise.
What about, let's see,
you have scissors minus Spock.
We have four minus one that's three.
Well let's see three has gone far
enough around we're actually kind of
counter clockwise.
In fact we have this rock, rock is four.
So we have zero minus one,
it's negative one.
Gosh what do we do there?
We could use modular
particular remainders.
We could go through and
take minus one remainder five.
Remember what I talked about.
Whenever you have a negative number
you're taking your remainder
just think about adding in the number
you're taking the remainder with
as many times as it takes to get it
in the range between zero and five.
So here if we take negative one,
we add five to it, we get four.
So the rule is really if you take
the first item minus the second,
if the difference is one or
two, the first items wins.
If the difference is three or
four, the second item wins.
So we'll go and
see that in a program to in a second.
This is a simpler way to
actually program the stuff.
All you're going to need to do
is build an else, else-if, if,
else-if, else clause and
use a little modular arithmetic.
So, let's move on to program template, and
I'll kind of, it will be more tangible.
Okay, let's get started on
Rock-paper-scissors-lizard-Spock.
So here we are on week one, and
we have our first two lessons and
the third lesson, as always,
is material for this week's mini-project.
You're watching the video for
the mini-project.
Let's start by talking and walking
through the mini-project description.
Now the next segment's going to actually
show you that description is going to be
in a slightly different interface
because it's a shot about two and
a half years ago.
So just like for mini project zero,
we have a description of the mini-project.
It has some kind of an overview here.
Kind of the same thing we talked
about in the previous segment.
And then it has a very detailed,
step-by-step walk-through of implementing
Rock-paper-scissors-lizard-Spock.
Please read this.
This gives you important hints
on how to implement the project.
For example,
it mentions when you're generating
random numbers, use random.randrange.
So read that, it'll give you
lots of nice hints on there.
Notice it also includes what the output
of the program should look like.
So if you're curious kind of
what it should produce,
it should produce
something in this format.
It includes a grading rubric that
discusses how to handle deviations and
then gives you items for how to evaluate
if your implementation is correct or not.
So it's important that you
familiarize yourself with this.
One important point here the first rubric
item says you need to use CodeSkulptor.
Don't try to cut and
paste your code into the submission box.
I know it's tempting because you
want to use a tool like Idle.
Well you can kind of get by it with it for
this project, but
in the future you're going to need to
be using CodeSkulptor because a lot of
the interactivity is going to take
place inside the web browser.
It's not going to be able to
be implemented inside Idle.
So just get used to it now,
use CodeSkulptor,
it's going to make peer assessment
much more reliable and much more easy.
When you're ready to start writing code,
you can scroll up here,
we have a template.
Every mini-project has a template,
we can click on this.
And this pops up, basically a CodeSkulptor
URL which contains the starting point for
your project.
Really if you look at the project there's
really three things you need to do.
You need to implement a function number
to name, a function name to number, and
a function RPSLS.
So you kind of have to fill in
these comments with Python code.
At the bottom,
there are five calls to RPSLS
that will essentially test if your
implementation is correct or not.
So when you run your code you should
expect to see some text appear over here.
And we've actually echoed
that text right here for you.
I'll also show it to you in the video so
you can actually see it in action.
This is my implementation of
Rock-paper-scissors-lizard-Spock.
You can see, it might ask, but where
are my definitions of these functions?
I've used a function,
basically kind of a feature of
CodeSkulptor called code folding.
If you right click on this little column
here, you can actually either fold up and
hide code or expose code.
I've actually hid the definitions of
number_to_name, name_to_number, and rpsls.
If I run this, what you can see
here is the textual output.
So, I notice a couple
of things about this,
that using random numbers I made
kind of a different response for
the computer on each particular
individual game here.
So, I didn't always choose
the same value for the computer.
And then if I run this again I see
different choices for the computer.
Notice the player's choices are always
the same for every single run, and
that's because we have
these five values here.
So this is kind of a way
to get you started on doing
Rock-paper-scissors-lizard-Spock.
Now what I'll do next,
is I'll walk you through how to get help,
if you get stuck in
implementing the mini-project.
Okay, you're working on your
mini-project and you get stuck.
It's going to happen.
So what do you do to get through and
finish off the mini-project?
Well, the first thing you can do is,
if you're confused about some particular
Python concept, go back and take
a look at the appropriate class video.
For example, if you don't
understand how conditionals work,
take a look at Scott's
video on conditionals.
We tried to include in the videos
all the concepts that you
need to finish that particular
week's mini-project.
Okay, that didn't get you unstuck.
All right.
Go back and look at
the mini-project description again,
in particular,
take a look at the development process.
There are lots of details here about
how to actually implement the project.
If you're not following the development
process, it's easy to get lost.
And so if you're having trouble,
go back and take a deep look at it.
All right, you've gone back over
the development process and
you're still having trouble
finishing off your mini-project.
Here are a few more
ideas on how to proceed.
The next thing I notice is we actually
have a practice mini-project here.
Again, it's totally optional.
It was created by one of the students
that has helped out with the class for
many years named Andrea.
She's built a template that has kind
of a description of what you need to do
in the comments inside the template.
It has a solution that
you can look at in here.
Probably the most important thing
it has all the same elements
that Rock-paper-scissors-lizard-Spock has.
And so if you're stuck on it
you can actually go out and
just try to do this practice
mini-project instead.
And look at the solution.
Look at how the solution solved a lot
of the same problems that you would see
in Rock-paper-scissors-lizard-Spock.
If that doesn't work, you have
a very powerful tool available here.
We have discussion forums.
The discussion forums are empty right now,
but when you're taking this class,
they'll be thousands of students out
there participating in the class, and
you'll see hundreds of posts
linked to material in the class.
What I suggest you do is, go through
the forum for the particular week you're
working on and look for threads that have
questions related to what you're stuck on.
If you don't find a thread that has
anything related to what your stuck on,
post a new thread.
Help out your peers,
they'll help you back.
We have mentors that
are associated with the class,
better than a dozen of them,
they're very, very dutiful,
they'll be there answering
questions inside the forums also.
This is a way for
you to interact with your peers, and
get help with finishing
off the mini-project.
Okay, if that doesn't work we have
a couple more ideas to finish things off.
All right, you consulted the forms and
you're still stuck.
We still got more help for you.
The next thing I suggest you do is inside
CodeSkulptor there is a button up here
that says Tips.
This links to a particular thread inside
the current week's mini-project forum.
So here in the form for
Rock-paper-scissors-lizard-Spock, and
I've created a thread called
Code Clinic tips for RPSLS.
So in this thread, I've essentially
posted some information about students'
errors and things to help with solving
this particular week's mini-project.
For this session, what we're going
to do is we're going to always
start off with some essentially testing
functions to help you make sure
that the helper functions you're building
for your mini project are correct.
So, remember you have to implement
name to number and number to name?
We even put out here two CodeSkulptor URLs
that you can use to test to see if your
implementations of those
functions are correct.
So for example, if I click on this,
it pops up a CodeSkulptor URL
which has a place for you to paste in
your definition of name_to_number.
Then it has some test
calls to name_to_number
with appropriate input data.
And it tells you what
should come out of that.
What the output format should look like.
So if your implementation of name and
number is correct,
you paste it in here you should see
something like this coming out.
This basically gives
you a way to check and
see if your helper function
is written correctly.
If it passes this test, there's a good
chance the implementation is correct.
There's also one here for number_to_name.
The thread also includes observations
from previous iterations of the class.
Here's some examples of kind of common
errors that I've observed in working with
students.
Things like always capitalize Spock,
Python is sensitive to case.
There's one thing I mentioned here was
this thing called, the Code Clinic.
So how did I get all these observations?
I, the other instructors and the community
TAs, have a special email address that
we've set up where you can, as a matter
of last resort, send requests for help.
For this session,
it's interactivepython@online.rice.edu.
Send email to this.
We have a professional help desk
that's actually helping us.
You should get an automatic response
if the Code Clinic is overloaded.
You'll get a response saying
it's going to take a long time,
you may not get a response.
Your email will actually be sent
to one of the instructors of
one of the community TAs.
And they'll have a chance to help you.
Now, this class is going to have
many tens of thousands of students.
If you're all trying to do
the project at once, and
there's maybe a dozen of
us trying to answer email,
this is only going to work if you use
this under the following circumstances.
You've tried all the other ways I've
discussed of help, of trying to seek help.
You only send us an email
with a CodeSkulptor URL
that's relevant to the current
week's mini-project.
This is not a way to get questions
answered about concepts about the class.
Post that in the forum.
We're going to ignore all other requests.
But if you're stuck and you think,
man I know I'm just like a just like
one little change away from
getting the mini-project done,
and you're getting frustrated send it
here we're going to do our best to help.
What will happen is, at the end
of the day, we'll try to send you
back maybe a modified CodeSkulptor URL
that will point out where your error was,
or give you a hint in
terms of trying to do it.
It may turn out there
are too many requests.
And so this is something that
we're doing our best at here.
My wife, I actually spent so
much time at the Code Clinic last time,
my wife actually got me
a custom t shirt for this.
We're going to do our best to help
every single one of you, and so
please be patient with us
especially on this first,
first couple of mini projects
if we get overwhelmed in there.
We've got better technology this time,
and we're going to do our best.
But again only use it for
code that's sick.
If your code is feeling ill and
not doing very well send us a url,
we'll take a shot at helping fix it.
Okay good luck on the mini-project.
You can do it.